of College Station, July 11th, 1983. Okay.
You were saying that on, what was right here at the,
I guess the east end of A&M, what was that like? Pig
Farm was up there. Was it, did it belong to the A&M
campus? Yes, it was. Here where the golf course is,
cows was there.
Did they have horses or? Well, the horse bond was up
on the other side of the main building up here. Mr.
Garrigan was the horse man. D.W. Williams was the
head of the animal husbandry.
And all of that walk put down on the other side of the
main building. Mr. McNew's brother-in-law laid
that. His name was Murray. He was in Middlewell,
Texas. When the chemistry building was built, I
remember that.
Well, did the hogs and the cows, were they used to
feed people on campus, or was it more like an
experiment station? Well, I imagine they
experimented on them, with them, and I imagine
they killed some. But it wasn't nothing but hogs.
They used to get all the garbage from the mess hole
and feed those hogs. I mean hogs, big hogs. Were
hogs raised in the community around College
Station? Anywhere else? Well, outlying people,
like down on the other side of Washington Chapel.
Well, all of that land
It's down there, uh-huh. All that land back down on
the side of where you read them, that belonged to
blacks.
Along the chapel? It belonged to blacks.
Washington Chapel. Mm-hmm. There was black name
after black name. The land behind it was
Richardson. D. Richardson. All the way back to the
bypass. Oh, really? Richardson, was he black
also? He died. His wife died.
The house was given away. The land was? In a way. Did
these people farm? Yes, they farmed. Did they
trade their crops with A&M, or did they take them
into Bryan? They had cotton,
etc. Had to take it to the gym. Well crops that they
raised, whatever vegetables. Corn and stuff like
that. Did they ever sell that to A&M College? No, it
wasn't. They raised just enough to supply the
family. Oh, I see. Okay, but what they made their
money from was cotton. And working on the campus.
Okay. I guess we were also talking about Bryan, and
you made a good point that the A&M College provided
jobs for people who lived in Bryan. Is that right?
Still do. They still do, right. Did Bryan, do you
feel like they treated the people differently
that lived around the college? The bribed people?
Well, yes. Because they felt like they had better
paying jobs than the bribed.
So there was a sense of rivalry between the two
people? Well, no. They just seemed as if they had a
little more respect for the guys out here on the
campus Mr. Redwood beat up guys down in Brown. He
didn't do nothing. He was on the campus. He worked.
He had a job. He made money.
And you're talking about all people. You're not
just talking about the black community? Well, I
can only answer for the black community. Oh, OK.
Because I didn't know too much about the white
community in Brown. But I knew about the white
community here. That's right. That's right.
Well, the reason I was asking these questions is,
you know, it could have easily have gone this way,
that Bryan had incorporated this land into their
city, and yet it didn't. It became its own town, and
I was just curious as to why that happened. I'm glad
you didn't. Why is that?
A person, at least I do, I feel like each individual
would like something of their own. They can say,
mine. And I can say, mine, when I come in. Although I
don't own everything.
I tell a lot of the students, you're not an Aggie.
What you mean? So you just attended school here. I
said, I'm an Aggie. I'm a born Aggie. But you ain't.
And I explained it to her. Don't believe me. You
were going to Kyle Field. I don't believe you. But
you know what I mean, until I really get serious.
Now, back to this town, Richardson, probably,
down there, Washington Chapel. I begged. I said,
please don't. He sold that land $200 an acre. He
could have got $200 a foot
for it. Oh, boy. If you don't know, you don't know.
That's big money. That's right.
It wasn't to me.
and you see something around the people, and you
see around people all
the time. Also, when you were talking about
Washington Chapel, you were saying an elementary
school was there. One room. One room. And how many
grades did that serve?
I think about the seventh. Did you have to walk from
A&M campus to there? Well, a lot of people probably
think that's pretty far today.
Did it meet all year long? No, no, no. I meant nine
months. Did it meet all the nine months? Was it a
county school then? It had to be, yes. I'm not quite
sure. Even when the weather was bad, you had to walk
it. And even if it was raining, you would just have
to come wet. Is that right? Do you remember after
Consolidated was built over here off the campus on
the Hollick land, was there a black school that was
also developed around there for the black
children to go to? Sure, that I know of. See, that
was developed. On the harlot land, I wasn't there.
I was there when I was. I see. So you don't know. I
really couldn't tell. And you've heard of Lincoln
Center and Lincoln School? I knew all the harlots,
the old ladies. I knew all of them, the mama and the
papa. I knew all of them.
Well, can you tell me a little bit about that, the
bohemian, bohemian? Community? Yes, they're
very liberal people. You don't lie to them, you get
along with them. Tell them the truth, it's OK.
Kopchinsky, right up there by the tower, he used to
own that. I'd sit down at his table so many times
with him and his family. I knew him before. He sat in
the chair. do him before he married. He was mother
and father. They called him Mo-pop, or Mo-cop, and
Po-cop. That's cute.
And John Stastny down the lower, on the same side.
Victor Bariski on the other side had a chicken
farm. The Krennicks. Were you familiar with the
Krennicks? The Krennicks. The Riskies. The
Riskies.
Nice people. How did you meet these people?
They... Well, just... Because they farmed,
didn't they? They didn't come... Excuse me. Did
they come to A&M campus? Well, not really. Well,
Felix and I would work up there a week or two or
something, you know, when he'd get caught up doing
the construction work. He was raising his family.
And Rick and I would work up there. The old man John
Stassman never did work. Frank David Vaughan
never did work, but he had 10 or 12 shotgun houses
over there. He was running. And he would farm.
And that was it. And what were the years of the
shotgun houses? Do you remember? Around the 30s.
He built them around the 30s? He built them
himself. It was for black people? Yes.
Some of these men would come and work on campus, but
you must have gotten off of campus and associated
with them also. Is that right? Yes, for sure. Just
being friendly. That's where I met a lot of these
people from the rural. I mean, when I mean rural, I
say, well, from around Rome, Chapel Weldon, or
Berkshire. Look, I know more people. I know more
white people than every client. Because I'm on the
campus. When I started working at Standard Oil, I
wasn't around nothing but Caucasian people. I
could shower in, Ali Khan, all that much. Jane
Russell. I knew all of them personally. The
Kennedys. Because of working with Standard Oil?
Close to them. Talk with them just like I'm talking
with you. Frank Sinatra. That's wonderful.
That's great. Jim DiMaggio. That's great. And
then there's brothers and sisters, father,
mother.
There's lots of different men in these. Is it? Very
much.
What was the character of the town? Apparently, it
must have been very close-knit so that if you would
go and eat with different families. Here? Uh-huh.
Uh-huh. To carry yourself in a respectable way.
And didn't get that bill. Or clean, was clean. And
he was alone with that children.
Fine.
There's some, I won't name them. It's just out
there. Some of them are from Florida. And if you
work for them,
come get your food out the back door you sit on the
steps and eat. That's not right. I know their
names. If I call their name, you probably know
them. I love them, but how are you going to do that?
No, that's probably not right. But for the most
part, people were not like that. Can you take the
Maslens?
One hundred and seven.
Mr. Lewis? One hundred
and seven. Dr. Walden? One hundred and seven.
He'll be in the kitchen. I understand. Don't get me
wrong. Bolton, he lived
in the kitchen. But he up there in the dining room,
he lived out here. And Connors,
same thing. Winklers, same thing. Bryson, same
thing.
Langford, McNeely, same thing. Todd.
And just so many, I can't think of all of them.
Marsteller, same thing. Quillens, same thing.
Did Mr. Langford, he helped you provide financing
for college. Did he do this for other people, too?
Not that I know of. It was just that they knew you
because you lived on campus. Were there other
black children that grew up on campus with you? Oh,
a gang of them.
I just guess they took a liking to me. After he died,
I never did go see her before she passed. Not that I
didn't want to, but I had a reason. It didn't make
sense for me to go there and break down.
She's old. She would break down.
I wanted to. When I ran into everybody, she would
die. When she had passed, I cried. That's my
mother. So apparently, Mr. Langford was a very
wonderful person, very unique, very... He was a
peach. He was a prince. Well, his language was a
prince. Press? P-R-E-S? P-R-I-N-C-E. Oh, a
prince. Oh, a prince.
You know, that's important because he was the
mayor for so long, and he had such an influence on
how College Station came to be. So College Station
was very lucky to have him as their mayor. J.K.
Walker was another man. Walker? J.K. Walker, Knox
Walker.
Nice people. My mother worked raising these boys.
She worked for them all the time. F.R. Bryson. New
Bryson still lives. She raised these boys. And
they have one child. Do you like the way that
College Station has developed? I do. Very proud of
it. Although I'm lost if I get up there. But I can get
down walking and, you know, find my way. But in a
car, one-way streets, you know, and all that, I
guess I'll turn around. Do you think it's growing
too fast, or do you feel like that's the best for it?
I think it's the best. It's progress. Do you find
that because it's gotten larger that you don't
have that closeness between people? That
apparently you did when you were growing up here?
Oh, I don't know any of the people there now. Right.
But now, I'll get on the telephone and call Mrs.
Brass, Mrs. Walker. This is Jim.
Oh, Jim, you know. They remember you. Sure they
know me. My mother passed in the 70s. I came here. I
called Mrs. Bryson. She came over to Brian's and
brought me some food. Oh, that was nice. My mother.
Was she buried here? Yes. In this cemetery? No, she
was buried in that. Brian? Mm-hmm. She died March
11, 1907. And I had to stay there three weeks. As
long as I had ever stayed in there, I found out.
After your mother, I guess she had lived in the
shotgun houses, did she move to Bryan later on?
Yes, and built a home and everything. And still
work as a domestic, or did she? She used to come out
here, buy a car, and work as a domestic.
What was her name? Stella. Stella White? Roan.
Roan? R-H-O-N-E. R-H-O-N-E.
Ms. Bryson knows her. Ms. Walker knew her. And
I don't know if Ms. Wankler remembers her or not. I
understand she's still alive. She's still
someplace back over there. I think they told me
where that someplace close to where Mr. Burgess
used to live or live now. I know where that is, Lee
Street. Lee Street is where Mr. Burgess lives.
Do you remember the, apparently there was some
kind of rural housing for boys that really didn't
have the money and they came and it was kind of a
co-op housing. Do you remember those? Since my
time. Past your time? I mean, I went here. Right,
right. But I think they were here. I don't know. I
came here on a vacation. I saw. On University? I
think so. I don't know what they were, but I think
that's what it was. Was. I'm probably seeing.
I probably am forgetting a lot of things, but is
there anything that you would like to add that
maybe I haven't talked about? Well, no, not in
particular. And if you think of something else,
well, you can get in touch with me. OK. My main point
was just to know what College Station was like when
you were growing up here, and what the character of
the town was. It was very nice. I had more clothes
then than I've gotten now. Because did you get them
from kids living on campus? Students from school,
yeah. They would give you their clothes? Oh, gee,
money. Clothes.
Nothing but clothes. Did they give them to other
black children, too? Oh, yes. If they knew them,
they'd let them in the dormitory.
Shoes, shirts, socks, coats. Everything you can
name. Not one thing, everything. I
made out of 20, 21 seeds of clove. Did you take any of
these and take them to your relatives in Navasota,
like the food that we were talking about earlier?
Well, I didn't have any relatives. I mean, my
grandfather and things like that, you know. Or any
of the other kids? I didn't, you know, other
people. I couldn't eat all of it. So you also gave
them away to people in the community. So it helped
not only you, but others. That's great. Well, they
didn't have the opportunity to go. To live on the
campus. And get what I got. Well, you had such an
interesting upbringing, being on the campus,
being a part of everything, being part of the core
activities. And you went to the football games.
Never paid to go to a football game in life. But you
went? Right. And what about baseball? Neither
one. Did you go to them? Sure. Any time they had any
kind of support? Dick Carr and all that group. I
imagine they had any someplace. Knew them all. So
for your recreation, you would go and watch the
Aggies play sports. And for your own involvement,
you and other blacks would play against, form your
own teams? Were these kids that lived on the campus
or kids you went to school with? Around the campus,
you know, in walking distance, around hot liquor
stores, places like that. Did you ever play
basketball? I talked to Mr. Krennic, and he said
he's older than you are, I believe. I'm not sure.
But he said that they played basketball. Did you
play basketball? I never played basketball. You
didn't play basketball? I used to go up to the
country club and carry. I liked golf. But
basketball was all right. I really didn't like it,
so I didn't play much other than baseball and
football. I loved it.
Okay. Well, is there anything else you'd like to
add? No, not in particular. Okay. Well, I
appreciate you having this interview with me. It
certainly helped me a lot in writing. I'm glad I'll
be able to help you. And those pictures there,
after you have them blowed up, you can mail them to
me. Okay. I'll mail these, and I'll mail a blown-up
picture, too. All right. Thank you. Okay. Thank
you very much. Let me turn this off.